Sometimes I feel like north Indians don't even respect South Indians just for the heck of it. Just reverse the role, and the outrage for not speaking Hindi and speaking only in English in the North.
North Indians have deep-seated hatred for South Indian people & culture.
Actually the other way around.
Loving a culture doesnot necessarily mean the local language will for forced down the throat.
One thing is for sure, north indians don’t take opression easily. They have a centuries old history of being attacked and they will retaliate if pushed, sooner or later
Then why do North Indians cower before Marathi chauvinists?
This is only because of North Indians' strong belief in caste system, which makes them treat all South Indians akin to Shudras & Dalits.
Speak to the north indians for this. Anything above TN is not north india. Certainly geography is not TN’s strongest suit.
if you come in the north and ask any north indian what they think about south india then most probably they would say that their food and movies are good. That's it.
This language war is bringing the worst out of people there only. It seems like language is the new tool developed by politicians to sustain control.
And after successful application in karnataka it's gaining traction in maharashtra too.
And she is not speaking in hindi btw which you hate so much, she is speaking in english only which you guys agree as second language so what is the problem i mean.
Bruh, this entire language thing started in MH.
Pls read about the history of Shiv Sena & MNS.
Also, 10x more Northies have been assaulted & even killed in Maharashtra by MNS goons, than in all the South Indian states combined.
I don't know which la la land you are living in, but if it helps you sleep at night, well & good.
Bro north Indians do respect southern Indian culture. And in video from the begining she was talking in english. But upon asking she said her language is hindi. Dont pass your bs agenda. Where as I see south Indians has mostlry hatred towards North Indians and they think that they are superior.
No, I have faced lot of racism & hatred in North India for being Tamil/South Indian with Iyer surname, despite looking like a Northie and speaking non-accented Hindi like y'all, due to my upbringing in Maharashtra.
This is not right
That's how villains are born. But may be you have done your research and surveys and I am just blabbering monkey on reddit.
May be they deserve that
Only a person who has not come out of South India can say such a thing. I invite you to come to Chattisgarh.
I have lived & worked all over North India for 20+ years (70s born).
I have faced racism & exclusion in North India for being a South Indian/Tamil with Iyer surname, despite being fair-skinned & having sharp features ie looking like a Northie and speaking non-accented fluent Hindi, due to my upbringing in Maharashtra.
They don’t respect any other language, not just the south.
Except MP, literally no other state of India speaks Hindi primarily. Yet they all communicate with each other in Hindi / English/ Sign language / body language and live peacefully. You idiots are the ones full of hatred! What you say should matter more than what language you say it in.
Bro they eradicate their own native languages to achieve their segregationist political gain
Nones of the languages are gone. Tamilians and now Kannadigas are playing a dirty game in framing such narratives which fuels hatred cross India.
Every individual state has a mother tongue and everyone speak in their own language. While talking to each other from different states they use Hindi as a common language.
The entirety of North India even Sikkim, ladakh, kashmir, and north east came to a consensus to speak in Hindi for better integration among us… if not for Hindi different tribes from arunachal wont be able to speak to each other and that’s a fact.
Why is south not coming to a consensus for a common south indian language so we will learn one language to communicate to all. What will be? Tamil? Telegu? Kannada? Malyalam?
Can the 5 states come a consensus? Clearly English is not the language that can be used to communicate in rural south. If you can’t come to a consensus then Hindi is a good option, as it is no body’s mother tongue.
Oh i forgot localised south indian languages like konkani, tulu , and kodavas are supressed by kannaddigas…no body seem to be speaking about kannada imposition here…
what kannada imposition , no one is forcing konkani , tulu and kodavas to speak kannada ? we just want local languages to be spoken to people who dont know other languages than local language from birth . show me a video where a kannadiga is saying he wont speak in kodagu , tulu or konkani in their places , i can show you so many video evidences like this where hindi people are saying they wont speak kannada .
You seems to lack grasping power.
I donot care whether kannadigas have shared videos of interest towards tulu kodavas or not. But tulunadu people have faced kannada language row issues within the state. That applies to kodava.
They are not even in the list of official language in karnataka itself despite the sizeable population.
Karnataka is big and kannada speakers being the largest community lacks empathy towards minority communities who has their own unique culture, rich history , food and language is blatantly sidelined and threatened from time to time and i am not saying it… everyone can search the details of their own…
So kannada speakers have issue. That’s for sure else , forget hindi, nobody should threaten their own state’s native culture and language. They are equally important and kannada shouldnot be forced down their throat.
https://theprint.in/ground-reports/a-new-language-war-in-karnataka-is-brewing-this-time-over-tulu-dignity/2004810/?amp
https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/tulu-kodava-speakers-demand-priority-for-their-languages-too-in-kannada-development-bill/article66065806.ece/amp/
Let me share more events to clear the air ahead :
2016: Tulu Language Protest in Udupi • Members of the Tulunadu Rakshana Vedike staged a dharna in Udupi, demanding the inclusion of Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution and recognition as an official language of the state. ￼
https://www.mangaloretoday.com/main/Protest-for-inclusion-of-Tulu-in-Eighth-Schedule-of-Constitution.html
2018: Kodava Community Seeks Minority Religion Status • Following the Karnataka government’s recognition of Lingayats as a minority religion, the Kodava community submitted a memorandum requesting similar status, citing their unique cultural and religious practices.
￼ https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/after-lingayats-kodavas-demand-minority-religion-status-in-karnataka/articleshow/63403308.cms
2020: Demand for Development Authorities • Congress MLC B.K. Hariprasad urged the Karnataka government to establish development authorities for Tulu and Kodava communities, emphasizing the need for focused cultural and linguistic preservation. ￼
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mangaluru/karnataka-set-up-development-authorities-for-tulu-kodava-communities-says-congress-leader/articleshow/79450022.cms
2022: Opposition to Kannada Language Comprehensive Development Bill • Tulu and Kodava speakers opposed the draft Kannada Language Comprehensive Development Bill, expressing concerns that it might marginalize minority languages and cultures within the state. ￼
https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/tulu-kodava-speakers-demand-priority-for-their-languages-too-in-kannada-development-bill/article66065806.ece
2022: Tulu Language Protection Protest in Mangaluru • Members of the Tulu Bhashe Samrakshana Samithi protested against the mandatory use of Kannada on government office and bus nameboards, advocating for the inclusion of Tulu script and recognition. ￼
https://www.mangaloretoday.com/main/Tulu-Language-Protection-Committee-stages-protest.html
December 2024: Kattemadu Temple Entry Conflict • A dispute arose at the Sri Mrutyunjaya Temple in Kattemadu when Kodavas in traditional attire were denied entry, leading to protests and a bandh in Hudikeri. The conflict highlighted tensions between Kodava and Arebhashe Gowda communities over cultural practices. ￼
https://www.theweek.in/theweek/statescan/2025/02/15/a-temple-entry-row-has-pitted-two-prominent-communities-in-kodagu-against-each-other.html?utm_source=chatgpt.com
February 2025: Kodava Community’s 82-km March • Over 25,000 Kodavas participated in a six-day, 82-km march from Kutta to Madikeri, demanding constitutional recognition, protection of cultural traditions, and the right to wear traditional attire in temples. ￼
https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kodava-community-protests-discrimination-demands-protection-of-traditions-101738955548279.html
So point being, Kannadigas should stop fooling around and it’s not about Hindi. Hindi and Non Kannadiga non South Indians are an easy target in karnataka and that is what is being targetted.
But they equally hate other languages in south which is proven from the fact that they don’t respect native languages of their own state
U dont see such scenes of language impositions from north, please dont get into this political trap. India is rich in culture and languages, not possible to learn all in this short life. Live with love and respect.
For telling the right things you got downvoted..we all know the reason and they still call themselves right for enforcing their language.
That’s ok. I have been banned from Bangalore group and karnataka group for telling the truth. If someone suffers from offensivitis just because some facts dont suit their anti hindi rhetoric and blocks voices then it reflects issues on their end. Sooner or later i will be banned from commenting here as well and it wouldnot bother me then as well.
But truth be told , these two states have insecurities of their own… and to large extent.
North indians and south indians hating each other are individual issues not a regional issues. Because people have better things to do life over having a region all together.
I have been downvoted to -10 as well and it made me feel good that it’s burning a hole in the inflated ego of these states.
I never saw konkani or tulu or mallus or even telegu speakers suffering from this identitu crisis. Kannadigas and Tamilians seize to understand that this is a dirty political game played by leftist to keep them alianated from the rest of the country but it’s creating problems for everyone.
Feel sad and sorry these insecure bunch of politically motivated language warriors aka “-language goons.
Dear arrogant chauvinist, Tamils protesting against Hindi imposition from 1920s. So, read real history not from WA university before blabber.
Sorry to disappoint you but it’s not my problem if your presumptuous nature makes you believe that any Non Tamilian wouldnot know what that lunatic periyar did by spewing hatred towards the brahmins, hence sanskrit, hence Hindi, since the learned brahmins although being the minority held 90% of the govt jobs.
Losers want anti sankrit and anti hindi agitation but can’t use takil slokas in the temples to begin with.
That being said periyar “the great hypocrite” stated Tamil is an uncivilised language “kattumirandha mozhi” …
Currently DMK cm and his son openly insults sanatan dharma and compared us to cockroaches , “Sanatana Dharma is like dengue, malaria, and should be eradicated”
I can’t even expect half the decency for followers of such retarded personalities.
At this point i reallt feel sry for likes of you. Adding more joker emoji at the end of the lame statements would neither make it funnier or smarter… just saying for your own good.
Chhod bhai ye kallu log nahi samjhenge. They love it when their jijaji speaks the same language in the name of urdu, but when they listen a north Indian speaking hindi they get triggered.
The least racist Hindi chauvinist.
https://www.outlookindia.com/books/the-fight-to-preserve-endangered-languages-in-india-magazine-335597
This comment is Indian equivalent of the American project of killing native American languages to promote English as the only remaining one.
They are extremely emotionally erratic people. This is the truth.
They reflect their own shortcomings on others disguising their racism.
do you know the history of north india ? it's been a continuous war, invasions and bloodshed for 600-700 years.
North indians have been facing wave after wave of brutal attacks and still they have survived with some core bits of their culture.
native languages they might have lost but i don't blame it on them.
You should low down on your hate towards them, history didn't treat them well and they don't deserve to be treated like this.
Bro, I’m a North Indian and I truly respect every language — whether it’s Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Assamese, Bengali, Mizo, Bodo, or any other. They reflect the rich diversity of our great nation. However, I prefer to communicate in English when I’m in the Northeastern or Southern states, unless I’ve been settled there for a long time. That’s mainly because, in my case, I might get transferred every 2 to 3 years, and learning so many different languages becomes quite challenging. But that doesn’t mean I expect everyone to speak Hindi. I’ve lived in Andhra Pradesh, a Telugu-speaking state, and I mostly communicated in English with my neighbors. They were always kind and supportive, and we never had any issues and if any person from north east or southern states are settled around me then I would prefer to talk to them in english
Ok, I did not know they get transferred every 2 or 3 years, good to know. Now that makes sense, learning a new language can get frustrating.
and your comment is wrong as you're saying that north indians don't even respect your language
Yes, and I don't expect anyone from West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, or other states to speak only Hindi. For example, my neighbor is Bengali, and even though she didn’t understand much at first, she gradually learned because she has been living in my state for 16 years. As for what's portrayed on social media—not everyone is like that, bro. I always differentiate between social media and real life. But seeing such fights from both sides makes me wonder if I ever visit Tamil Nadu or Kerala in the future, will they discriminate against me, even though I respect Tamil and all other languages? Because first of all, you're Indian just like me. Jai Hind
And these bank employees who are clerks are transferred after 3-4 or at max 5 years
Boy I have a news for you... Hindi is quite looked down upon in the North. Movies like Hindi Medium, English Vinglish exist precisely because of that.
The reality is English is quite prevalent in urban area and office spaces, if you are in north, you can fairly get away with not knowing Hindi.
Boy I have a news for you... Hindi is quite looked down upon in the North. Movies like Hindi Medium, English Vinglish exist precisely because of that.
The reality is English is quite prevalent in urban area and office spaces, if you are in north, you can fairly get away with not knowing Hindi.
This is the biggest load of bullshit. Are you for real? How r u so disconnected from reality?
Reverse the role and speak in English. Nobody cares as long as they understand you. Dont just assume. The language policy is other thing but the ongoing language conflict in the south is not north's fault. Its your own culmination...
Well, I want to say there is some fault of north, by not supporting their own regional language and just being rolled over by Hindi. Yeah, I agree people are taking it up a notch, but that's because the government is pushing their buttons, and silently watching. I am also sad, it has come down to this.
Bro, every North State has their own language. If a bengali moves to any state if they meet with bengali they speak Bengali, they teach their children bengali. Same for marathi, punjabi, gujrati etc... Every state has their own language and they just don't force it on others who are not speaking their language.
If I move to Gujarat, if I move to Gujarat, no one force me there to speak gujrati but I will learn myself so that I will communicate easily to locals.
In kanada and tamil , they are trying to force people to learn their language. That is creating a problem.
Yeah...its north's fault because we are not fighting and threatening non locals. How very profound.
You will just get ignored by everybody 😂
Respect needs to be mutual, can't be one way thing. People on both sides are being equally disrespectful.
The first blood is by them
No need to cry after being an asshole
Ok, I agree that respect should be mutual, so people who move to southern states from the north, after living for 5 or 10 years, they still do not make an attempt to learn the language and have the pride that, people around them should be able to understand them, isn't it being a bit selfish at this point. No one is asking them to converse fluently, but just enough to get by with the locals, who lack formal education.
You're in a sub full of retards The name of the subreddit itself shows how stupid these unemployed mfs are no wonder they're downvoting you
Not learning 3 languages is disrespectful?
I also don't support that south people should learn Hindi if they don't want to. It will be their choice which language they should learn.
But your logic of three languages are wrong, many of the North State people learn three languages, Bengali personnel will learn bengali and English in their classes, hindi - they learn just to speak. Same for Gujrati or Punjabi, Marathi etc.
Most North State people learn three languages automatically, it's their choice
But you people claim that English is the link language of the South and that everybody speaks English, therefore you don't need Hindi.
The lady in the video speaks English. What's the problem now?
This is the problem
https://m.timesofindia.com/city/mumbai/why-cant-bank-employees-learn-local-language-asks-fm/articleshow/94258051.cms
https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/banks-must-appoint-staff-who-speak-local-language-says-nirmala-sitharaman-3352956
https://www.timesnownews.com/business-economy/industry/ensure-frontline-staff-are-well-versed-in-local-languages-fm-sitharaman-nudges-banks-article-94262204
https://www.thehindu.com/business/fm-urges-banks-to-be-more-digital-savvy/article65899977.ece
But SBI does transfers every 2 years and in many cases they transfer in less than a year, so how can you expect to learn a new language for every new transfer. In this case English is the best option.
Change transfer policies then lol.. you are a customer facing entity. Which means you gotta cater to the customers. Business 101
The manager doesn't need to speak to customers everyday. Even if she needs something, she can get someone from the office to transla
Ok if that person is the manager, it’s their responsibility then to always have or call an associate to talk to the customer in case the customer does not know Hindi!
(Ofc applies only when the manager is supposed to speak to someone else)
But you do agree that someone at the position of clerks and cashier should speak the local language?
P.S.: my dad was a bank manager who got transferred to another state. He tried to learn the local language (albeit unsuccessful), but he always ensured someone accompanied him when he was required to a local.
Don't be corrupt don't get transferred.
Good to know I did not know they get transferred that often.
I feel like this language shit is created to divide indians and this kannadigas tamilians marathis language warriors are just brainless pawns of politicians otherwise u come to north not anywhere there is a language problem from j&k to Rajasthan haryana Delhi mp up bihar uttarakhand bengal entire north east chattisgarh jharkhand u can call us illeterate or anything but I don't know why so much hate u have for Hindi or Hindi speakers the way u guys talk too Biharis is just super racist of you guys.......
North ppl dont tell u to speak hindi or punjabi. They communicate in comfort language.
Every 3 years a SBI bank officer is transferred. how many languages will he learn. You imbeciles don’t understand that language is medium to communicate not your freaking culture.
i feel same vice versa.
What are you talking about. Nobody cares in North India if you don’t speak Hindi. Have you even gone to North India?
You are showing your weaknesses in others and their strengths in you basically.
The truth is no1 gaf about what to speak or not. It's you guys in the South who just keep harassing innocent individuals just because some1 don't know your language.
How extravagant one has to be that they have a problem with language some stranger speaks.
You guys are pathetic!
Yeah north indian have the audacity to do that east and south India . They are imposing language to every other people I just hate that from Bengal
Don't just limit to North, entire nation hates you guys.
Go and speak.
firstly she’s arrogant secondly she can handle it professionally as get someone able to converse in local language
Wait tonight or tomorrow she will post apology video in broken Kannada
Ah yeah threatening someone is definitely something to boast about .
Oh yeah not having the common sense to respect the people of the state where she works is something to boast of .
Silence, Northoid
Never take such videos at face value. You don't know what happened before recording started.
Finally one sane comment. She's speaking in English, you never know how the other guy would have provokd her first
Reminds me of Sonu Nigam controversy
Brother I swear, Northies say in comments, "You didn't crack the exam so cry about it. Be smart to crack the government exam then you dont have to complain for not getting job" Etc shit. I want to tell them that there is a lobby in indian railways and all central govt dept where north indian is given preference. And this is NOT POSSIBLE that states like karnataka Tamilnadu and Maharashtra doesnt have smart people who can crack these exams
just talk to anyone prepairing for govt exams, theres a reason that most ssc teachers are from hindi background, always find some southie bro finding a teacher and he has to go with hindi teacher only because they are the top quality teachers, and those teacher also try to cater to them by giving notes in english, captions in english in videos, maybe if there were some good southern teachers who focus on ssc exams, there'd be more participation.
then why are there not any good southern teachers?
Lol. Do you even hear what you say?
Source : Trust Me bro
This comedy piece thinks only north Indians are smart
Exactly. If they are so smart then why can't they learn the local language instead of creating nuisance in other states.
When you can't get anything on your marit you start crying. Keep crying
You can’t even spell merit & questioning capabilities of others.
Yeah "Marit".
You definitely seem to have the 'marit' to make that argument.
You mean 'merit'? 🤣
South Indians are smart, they just focus on applying for a visa to work abroad.
According to me, all this becomes immaterial. Ultimately they’re in a service industry. Banks owe a duty to their customers to be able to speak in their language. Senior citizens, persons in rural areas etc., cannot be forced to speak in Hindi or English to exercise their fundamental right to have a bank account. I’m flabbergasted that this is even a discussion. My parents find it so difficult to bank because the people working don’t know Kannada and don’t cooperate with my parents. To withdraw their own money, all this they have to go through.
Why even employ non natives to deal in a bank used by natives
Transfers, problem is sbi
Vadakkans and their attitude has to change.
nah they will never change, avanga laam first south kullaya allow panna koodadhu
Hate against people. Further comment will make the user banned from the sub.
Why are you posting similar comments everywhere?
Bro my profile avatar is on of the defaults so u must be mistaking me for someone else
Average Hindian L
She didn't even speak Hindi throughout the video l. Maybe think about that before hating. Probably something else is going on before the video started.
No we all could use a little bit more Hindi hate regardless of the context
Thier next gen is fucked from what I can tell in video games
This hate is precautionary at this point
How old are you bud?
Late 20s
YESS LET ME A 20 YEAR OLD NOT INTEGRATE WITH OTHER PEOPLE WHO ARE JUST TRYING TO CIMMUNICATE 😡😡😡
y'all just a buncha insecure children i s2g
What csgo? Don't lump the mumbai server retards with the whole north lol. For being in the richest city in India those guys were the most illiterate people I've met online.
As a Punjabi living abroad, I just can't watch this video. I just don't understand the entitlement of some people. You should speak the language of the place you work and live in! This is the bare minimum requirement. The chauvinism displayed here is crazy.
I would request the people of Karnataka to file a complaint to SBI and ask their government to take action to protect their culture and language. The banks and other essential services should be legally required to provide service in that particular state's language.
How many languages in Canada? French and English.
How many languages in India? Yes let's learn them all instead of finding a common ground to build national identity.
One thick headed mf you are
Dear NRI,
Stay abroad. Don’t watch. Don’t bother lecturing. Learning english and learning Kannada as an adult are two different ball games.
Yours truely, RI
Yeah right
These people are supporting the bully. Learning another language is not an easy task. Anyway, she’s speaking English and the guy is not. Isn’t that what they wanted? English?
Now they want her to learn their language. Wth
The RBI rule states that frontline bank staff are supposed to transact in local language within 6 months of posting (who even training is a part of their job)
Reminds me of this post 2 years ago https://www.reddit.com/r/bangalore/comments/12g8yyf/hindi_staff_abusing_kannada_customers_in_bank_of/
The manager is not a frontline staff, clerical employees are frontline staff
Yes but when the manager has to talk for some reason, what are they supposed to talk in? This is clearly a flaw in the process followed by SBI.
Managers will only talk in whatever language they know, they are not there by choice,most of them opt for their home state for posting,but due to so called staff balancing in organisation, management transfer UP guys to banglore,Tamil guys to Gujarat..... Recently DFS put out a circular/order stating that untill scale 3, officer should be posted in his/her home State, scale 3 means almost all officers under chief manager
Isn't that why im saying it's a flaw in the process.
Make English the national language, it's already official language of communication between states, make it the language of all office work with translators or software translation for local languages and dialects. Stop these nonsense language fights
Nah just acknowledge it as Lingua franca and have the central government tell people that therr is no national language for India
These losers from north asked me how am I an hindustani if I didnt know Hindi
Funniest thing I didnt even what hindustani meant at the time
But I agree, English and then local language should be official for all purposes
Yeah, most sensible take. The manager can use help of local staff if any customers don't know English.
Wow to save our language we need a foreign language nice idea
We can accept a foreign language which has nothing to do with our history and culture only beneficial for outsider to control us and make us fight within ourselves but we cant accept a language originated in our own country. Nobody is at fault here but the education system which taught us English is important for growth and development. We nothing but just consumer and product of western mindset. And we show that we care about our culture and people, how dumb we are. Why are we accepting English happily over any other Indian language?
BS, language is language it's just a medium of communication and expressing thoughts that's it, we're not even speaking the same language our ancestors did years ago because it changes so much. The most important thing for a language is to be able to communicate with others, you wrote your whole comment in English mf why???? Cause you wanted me to understand it. English is partly the reason why India had a massive growth in IT and reason we are talking to each other right now dumb ahh, most software and coding languages were written in English as well most books about them, that + cheaper salaries made western companies setup call centers here and then later IT services, it's the reason we had massive IT growth over South America despite having less educated population, at the time, to they spoke Portuguese and Spanish and fell behind.
How do you think we'd be having this conversation without English? It would've been the Sinhala vs Tamil situation all over again and India would've divided into small nations long ago.
South Africa still speaks English as their only language and they aren't being "controlled" by the UK or anyone. Most Indians know and speak English, including you are you being controlled right now?? No you're able to express your views and opinions and at this time even French and Germans are learning English to get hired in global companies. Germans put a lot of hours into learning English. Regional languages are dumb and it's better if the world one language. Hell make a new one that's scientifically the easiest to speak without losing meaning and make it the official language of the world.
BS, language is language it's just a medium of communication and expressing thoughts that's it, we're not even speaking the same language our ancestors did years ago because it changes so much. The most important thing for a language is to be able to communicate with others, you wrote your whole comment in English mf why???? Cause you wanted me to understand it. English is partly the reason why India had a massive growth in IT and reason we are talking to each other right now dumb ahh, most software and coding languages were written in English as well most books about them, that + cheaper salaries made western companies setup call centers here and then later IT services, it's the reason we had massive IT growth over South America despite having less educated population, at the time, to they spoke Portuguese and Spanish and fell behind.
How do you think we'd be having this conversation without English? It would've been the Sinhala vs Tamil situation all over again and India would've divided into small nations long ago.
South Africa still speaks English as their only language and they aren't being "controlled" by the UK or anyone. Most Indians know and speak English, including you are you being controlled right now?? No you're able to express your views and opinions and at this time even French and Germans are learning English to get hired in global companies. Germans put a lot of hours into learning English. Regional languages are dumb and it's better if the world one language. Hell make a new one that's scientifically the easiest to speak without losing meaning and make it the official language of the world.
Because that way we don't have to learn 3 languages.
Kannada people are right. Hindi people must speak kannada in banglore, marathi in mumbai. Just speaking English is not enough. They have to be taught a lesson
Typical Hindian arrogance thinking all non-Hindi speakers are beneath them
Technically on geographical front South (India) is below the so called Hindi Belt (North 
Anyone surprised that these Hindi speakers lacking respect for others??
Close that SBI branch
Hate to be that person but Dravidians are native to Indian subcontinent while Indo-Aryans came later. So maybe they should learn to respect languages that are more Indian.
Such a slappable face she has
Mirror Mirror !
I am a north indian. And i support the regional language more than English/Hindi itself.
I think we all should learn the language of the state of we are planning long term stay.
And most north indians think like this only. A few stupid people shouldn't be taken as face of North India.
Few?
If it was just a few, we wouldnt be having this problem
You might find it difficult to believe, but at least in Delhi and UP , most people religiously believe that Tamil is the greatest language of the world. It is because somewhere in scriptures it is written that , Ramayana was first told by Lord Shiva to Agastaiya Rishi in Tamil Language itself. And from there it was spread in other languages.
I am South Indian. PSU employees who get transferred every few years don't need to learn the local language everytime they start working in a new state. Knowledge of Hindi and English - the two official languages of the Indian union is enough. If you can't speak either, tell your state government to teach you at least English.
You be any state if your working for the local people of a state then union gov have to appoint staff who should know the local language. Else don't transfer those people else let the union gov drop of these & handover to the state let the state server the people with its own people... Pushing Hindi in the name of these shit will be seen as imposing
Absolutely not. Your state and language are not special. You are part of the country India. The Indian union has two official languages - Hindi and English. If you can't speak Hindi or English, tell your state government to do better in education. Anyway you're the ones who keep claiming that everybody in the South speaks English and that it's your link language. So, speak to these bank employees in English. Don't expect them to learn your local language.
We are part of Indian government which all states agreed for unity in diversity not unity in any language... If you don't know the constitution please learn & to your reminder Our culture our language is also represented as India not just one language or one culture so union has to provide services in peoples local language if they can't do that ask them to leave it to the state & only look after the external affairs.
If your role is a customer facing role then you need to learn the local language
https://m.timesofindia.com/city/mumbai/why-cant-bank-employees-learn-local-language-asks-fm/articleshow/94258051.cms
https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/banks-must-appoint-staff-who-speak-local-language-says-nirmala-sitharaman-3352956
https://www.timesnownews.com/business-economy/industry/ensure-frontline-staff-are-well-versed-in-local-languages-fm-sitharaman-nudges-banks-article-94262204
https://www.thehindu.com/business/fm-urges-banks-to-be-more-digital-savvy/article65899977.ece
By seeing this i think trump is right
What did trump say?
Politicians should raise issue that banks should have employees who can talk in local language. How will common people understand what she is telling, even if someone is translating, how are you sure that they are saying the exact message, what if you get cheated afterwards. As they are dealing with money, people should know the terms, conditions from the authorised person only
"I will never speak Kannada". Why don't she do a favor (including herself and go back to wherever she came from)
She will don't worry. Most probably she didn't come out of her will as well. It's a routine transfer you know.
If people like my mother who doesn’t know Hindi or English, go to her , what are they supposed to do ?
Kannada is a must in banks , hospitals and all government bodies
The same problem we are facing in Maharashtra. We younger generation understand Hindi well, but our parents and grandparents don't understand it well. We're simply asking Hindi-speaking people to learn a little bit of Marathi so they can interact with locals and handle day-to-day issues. But many of them refuse to learn any other language. And when locals ask them to speak in the local language, they act innocent and showcase it on social media. Everyone then supports them, and we-the local people are made to look like villains in the eyes of North Indians.
THIS IS KARNATAKA!!!
Send the bizz to TN, we will teach her not only tamil but all South Indian languages
That man is being incredibly decent in his moment of frustration... That woman is devoid of any decency.
How to spot arrogant outsider. Their tone like Karen and attitude. Victim card After living in state for more than decade still can’t speak regional language. Pathetic
Update: This video was posted in my office group today with following message as we are a finance company:
Just something we might want to flag proactively. 🛑
🚨 Another issue cropping up for banks – language concerns, especially in the South. A recent case in Bangalore with SBI is going viral where a customer insisted Kannada must be spoken by staff, claiming it’s an RBI mandate.
So, is it true? Not exactly. There’s no fixed RBI rule that staff must know the state language. However, it’s definitely encouraged – especially for customer-facing roles. Some banks even include local language tests during hiring.
Was the branch manager wrong? Not entirely – but the situation could’ve been handled better. These things are sensitive and can escalate fast if not managed with empathy.
Could this become a crisis for our clients? Potentially, yes. These incidents are getting more visibility online. Might be a good idea for our banking clients to stay alert and take a few steps – maybe an internal advisory to staff, some quick refresher guidance on handling such situations.
PS: Under RBI’s language policy, all customer-facing materials (forms, signage, posters, etc) must be displayed in three languages. For example, in Maharashtra: English, Hindi, and Marathi.
This will solve water logging in Bengaluru
What kind of tests do we have to select people in such prominent positions? What is the test's credibility if people with bs filled in their mind with attitude of false superiority can get selected?
RBI clearly mandated that people should know the local language when you work customer facing jobs. I don’t know why SBI is not validating it.
Basic language skills which’s able communicate with locals or assign them non customer based services
What is the problem? Ask the govt to not transfer north indian employees to south instead of fighting the normal civilians ffs.
"WHEN THERE IS NOTHING ELSE LEFT TO DO, WE ARE GOING TO FIGHT MAKING LANGUAGE AS AN ISSUES TO FEEL VALIDATED"
She never used hindi so there is no hindi imposition to see here. On one hand you have the bank employee who says she will speak Hindi but doesn't do it throughout the whole video and keeps the conversation in English so the other can party can understand you. On the other hand you have a "prideful local" who keeps yapping in kannada no matter if she understands it or not. Another thing to notice is she never said she doesn't know kannada, only says she won't speak it. Who knows, Maybe she does know some kannada but is refusing to speak it when being forced by someone who just wants to satisfy their pride. Does she not deserve to have some pride in her own language (which she isn't even using btw)? Ah but why would we think that much? Hating is easier because north indians are lesser than people right?
She literally mentions that she will speak Hindi, cas it is India
Even though the local language isnt Hindi and she is working a customer service job
This is hindi imposition 101
She didn't speak Hindi in the video yea? If she was a hindi supremist then she would've who wanted to impose hindi right then she would've been arguing in hindi. No? The uncle on the other doesn't care whether she could understand him or not, kept speaking his own language.
People have no idea what's these government/bank employees face. My dad is in SBI for a little more then 30 years and we have shifted across 8 states starting from Odisha, Bengal, Gujrat , undivided AP, TN etc. Have stayed not more then 3 years in those states but have to learn a totally different language just to stay for a couple of year? Are you serious?
Either gave posting to local people or people who can speak the language
Yea, that doesn't give them rights to demand locals to speak Hindi and bully them by 'denying service' if they don't speak Hindi.
I am sure your father wouldn't have done any of it. But many do in today's time.
And learning few lines of regional language is a nice gesture, no one demands proficiency. I travel to TN for couple of days on work and I don't know Tamil, but I learn few phrases to speak with Auto drivers and they show a sense of warmth and appreciation. That's more than enough.
And its not that difficult thing to do in today's time with LLMs and language translators
Not trying to take the side of the employee here, but if someone yanks my chain for only being able to speak in English and not the local language, I would get annoyed too. While I understand the nice gesture part, I don't think the customer is in any mood to appreciate nice gestures.
Yes, that would be better let local people get the jobs
https://m.timesofindia.com/city/mumbai/why-cant-bank-employees-learn-local-language-asks-fm/articleshow/94258051.cms
https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/banks-must-appoint-staff-who-speak-local-language-says-nirmala-sitharaman-335295
https://www.timesnownews.com/business-economy/industry/ensure-frontline-staff-are-well-versed-in-local-languages-fm-sitharaman-nudges-banks-article-94262204
https://www.thehindu.com/business/fm-urges-banks-to-be-more-digital-savvy/article65899977.ece
This is why bank needs to focus on recruiting people in the same state you can transfer people within the state problem solved but wait they will not do that they want to somehow impose there hindi so make problem for everyone find a root keep imposing.. There is going to be a civil war because of this that's when union government will learn there limits if not taking the south people for granted & always supporting & keeping the North as their prince...
So just because your dad gets transferred once every 3 years, the entire state to which he has been transferred to, need to learn a language your dad is comfortable with?
No but there are other employees who can speak the local language. Just ask nicely that they can't speak in English or hindi. Can you suggest who can speak?
One line and all done. People use to be empathetic in past. But now pull your mobile and start recording.
Plus I also mentioned that govt should post only the people who are local or can speak the language, if everything fails.
The incompetence of RBI or your dad is not the fault of the people. The bank should employ people who can speak the native language of the population living there. The people of India should have the right to speak in their native language in their Govt offices including govt owned and public sector banks.
Do you think anyone goes into the bank to make a fuss and post it on social media? They already asked nicely they didn't get the services in the local language but their salaries paid by the natives from their taxes.
Yes, please post locals but then how can the union government lobby their vote banks when South is developing and the Northies have no jobs.
Speak to them in English. Your "link language". Lol.
Lol a person in rural areas will speak the native language. There are RBI guidelines.
https://m.timesofindia.com/city/mumbai/why-cant-bank-employees-learn-local-language-asks-fm/articleshow/94258051.cms
https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/banks-must-appoint-staff-who-speak-local-language-says-nirmala-sitharaman-3352956
https://www.timesnownews.com/business-economy/industry/ensure-frontline-staff-are-well-versed-in-local-languages-fm-sitharaman-nudges-banks-article-94262204
https://www.thehindu.com/business/fm-urges-banks-to-be-more-digital-savvy/article65899977.ece
Its lingua franca, cry harder
What language you speak then?...
3y is enough time to learn the language.
Are we expecting that you master the language and write a novel?
You just need to have functional language skills.
OR JUST DO YOUR DUE DILIGENCE FOR THE JOB YOU ARE TAKING
Learn the local language
Learn to politely tell people thst you are still learning the local langauge in English
Dont be an asshole
Government jobs don't give you any option before posting you anywhere. Stop acting like an unemployed prick. After a certain scale in SBI, they get post anywhere across India. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. Plus on a manager level or plus you don't have to be customer facing. So they are most likely to get posted anywhere.
The government job didnt also tell her to be obnoxious and say that she will still speak hindi, she did anyway
She did not have to antagonize the local crowd
She couldve have said she doesnt know kannada and thats why she tried to speak Hindi, or better yet SPEAK ENGLISH
She isnt innocent, Hindi imposition 101
Funny thing in all of 1.30 mins she only spoke in English. Not Hindi.
I said the same thing and got downvoted as hell. People only want to fight, not reason.
My two of nephews are senior managers in nationalised banks, same as your father and never heard complaints about hindi language as posted in even in rural areas
I'm pretty sure this is an ISI sponsored thread. NIA should investigate.
Everyone is allowed to be proud of thier language. It's SBI, it's a central bank, manager can be transferred from any state, could be bengal, could be Jammu, could be from kerela. So if someone in Punjab tells a kannada speaking manager to speak punjabi, how would you guys react?
Then should not select the job.
So you want people to learn new language for every state they get transferred? It’s sbi’s fault to posting non-natives in different states. Protest to them instead of harassing employees.
OP IQ LEVEL = the world's most idiot person of all time.
Retarded.... uneducated....just knows only its mothertongue...
The biggest issue here is stupid HR policy of SBI, most officers don't get their home state. They have to serve in other states because of that . Even worse, they'll randomly transfer a person from UP to Tamil Nadu and and vice versa,no consideration to language or home posting. Even after posting they don't get ICT to their home state ,it has been increased to 8 yr service. Mind you officers are selected through the All India level exam . But clerical is another thing ,it is state specific and you need to pass local language test to be selected.
I don’t think it’s fair to force sbi employee to speak local language, as it is more of a sbi’s fault. As far as i know, you can’t control where you get posting. Also they can’t learn the language as they get transferred many times. So it’s not easy to just learn the language, they’ll get transferred to other state anyways.
I am from north, and my brother-in-law is sbi branch manager. Even he don’t want to get transferred to south india(because of language), but it’s not in his hands.
whats wrong going on my relatives who work in Bangalore dont know Kannada so ofc they will talk in english what's wrong in that if you come to my state we wont force you to speak in hindi (and if somebody does then they are mentally retarded imo).We are living in India full of different cultures ,language, heritage, tradition so one should respect each other and in bank any other public place one must communicate in language preferred to them.
P.S-This is not against South people dont get me wrong few days ago I saw two vides from Mahatrshtra a couple scolding a delivery boy for not speaking marathi and a guy threatning a shop labour for not speaking marathi!
Also CM is more interested in this minor issue rather than Bangalore water issue!
At least the KA CM brought development first, then worried about language unlike BiMARU CMs looking for fake beef issues, religion matters instead of development. You should be ashamed for that.
bro seriously??The area I have been leaving was so underdeveloped like their was so much issues especially womens safety,water ,electricity ,security and most imp road was a big big issue now all of them have improved a lot except Women safety(this has only improved a bit this is a common issue in whole INDIA).So actually there is and what can I say about other beefs well they are politician be it bjp,congress,aap or anybody they will play religion, language monopoly and ofc the people and i am not ashamed cause I literally saw development and pls read carefully I am not against any person just a CM should not be handling this issue which is very common one rather other things its okay you guys support because you are the people living their my reviews are based on relatives and knowns living there.
Very disappointing to see this. Couple of observations. I come from a Defence family where all Indians get along just fine.
Now, I've lived in Kochi as well as in Bengaluru. Imposing Kannada language is getting out of hand. It's good to pick the regional language - people should make an effort but also note that being a d*ck about it doesn't serve anyone well.
Also, this channel TN Rejects etc. - I know how well you (don't) get along with Karnataka or Kerala or Andhra.
Try to integrate people - we are all Indians and should try to adjust and accommodate each other.
Anyway why shoudk anyone learn a new language just to communicate with you guys when you work in our region. How does it make sense?
Clearly English comprehension isn't your forte. I'm saying that one should make an effort to learn the regional language e.g. Kannada.n will block me from this - let's unite and not divide.
All these language wars will destroy India. Keep doing it brothers.



Upvote
-5

Downvote

Reply
reply

Award

Share
Share

Western-Ebb-5880
•
17d ago
Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter
That’s Indian central government started and let’s see where it’s leading
Your solution is to make everyone learn 3 languages?
Hate against people. Further comment will make the user banned from the sub.
I thought all employees should have a basic understanding and speaking skill of that state.
They could both have spoken English
She should be removed from developed South India and posted in some godforsaken place.
Adanga she’s speaking in English. Pinna enna hair ku Kannada lo mathadu? Without knowing how long this lady has worked in Bengaluru, it also has to be said that you don’t get Kannada fluency the moment you cross the border. There is no job requirement of Kannada fluency to be an SBI manager. We have to be reasonable and realistic as well.
So there is one person who does that and that becomes imposition. Logic dies a 1000 deaths,
Indians always find something to fight on, conservatives fight on religion, liberals now fight on language
Another simple example of how an issue is twisted at a political level to make the other person look bad. They were clearly not fighting over the language but this man introduced kannada in the middle of a fight, and it is clear from the comment section everyone is hating north Indians now, that man achieved what he wanted.
Fighting for your language and still speaking English. People can speak english but not hindi. Angrez ke chude
Lol, these people are posted away from their home state against their own will...nobody wants to work away from their home for the same salary and perks...this was done to eliminate corruption and malpractices....this is the reason central government employees are transferred after some time...... It is anyways better for them to go back home and do the same work for the same salary and perks.
Currently the central govt does not impose language restrictions in hiring, so people from all states get equal opportunities ....let's suppose the government implements it...so the hiring in Karnataka would be only from Karnataka and hiring for UP will be from UP.....UP requires more posts due to population then eventually people from Karnataka would lose opportunities as they can be eligible only for Karnataka posts which would be less.
Comments should be in Tamil, or any other South Indian languages or in English. No other languages allowed.
One day every state will speak their language.....like rajsthan have 3 language, punjab have punjabi gujrat have gujrarati, bihar have maitahli and bihari, UP have bhojpuri , avadhi , braj......so all south indian people will learn all this languages and .....and all north indian people will learn all south indian languages...... Indian doesn't required single language platform to communicate with each other........ So whenever we say proudly indian it's hypocrasy.......our biggest enemy is our own citizens
She is right here. You cannot force anyone.
At least this sub is not overrun by Hindi walas. All Bengaluru subs are overrun by bimaru's supporting that bitch.
Language goons are using language to harass people especially girls and womens
India against Indians. Who wins?
Lol what how did this sub come across my feed? Guys, what a miserable situation. You all want to feel entitled cause you not only know a regional language (good on you) but also are xenophobs and are absolute social rejects? Try this outside India and you'll soundly be put in your place.
Bank people are transferred all the time. Imagine the stress they're already in. You goof around and misbehave with IPS officers as well? Nah. You'll only prey on the weak. Try it with an IAS and IPS guy and you'll FAFO very quick, rest assured.
You can only fire downhill cause you're all cucks. Shoot up. Be real men. Whiny losers.
You're the reason the country is a divided mess. Tamil refuse to integrate. And now it's a whole southern belt issue.
u/neoronin konga sule magne, will you allow this post in r/bangaloreShe is clearly speaking in English so what's the problem with that. This is the work of illiterates trying to get some fame by asking everyone to learn a specific language even if they are clearly communicating with you in a language you are clearly comfortable with and not forcing you to learn their own language.
SBI officers are transferred through out the country .they should learn all the languages. Better ask the locals to clear exams
She is speaking in English not Hindi.
If u harass me to not knowing ur language I'll react the same way. She didn't choose to be there the (sbi) government made her it's their fault why would they employ her when she doesn't even know native's language.
She escalated the situation by saying speak Hindi. Should have shown basic respect and learned a few words.
This is Karnataka, abey this is India also. What is Karnataka without India. Why do people of Bangalore have so much ego and start abusing anyone who is north Indian. They are just looking for reasons, be it cab drivers, auto drivers or the general public. The moment they see they can benefit from this language wars, they start matda matda thing.
Deport all these kanaddians to Canada.
Ok if a north indian visit karanatka he should speak Kannada or not visit at all?
English one could understand, but why insist hindi, because its india? What type of logic is this...
She has insulted, antagonized and belittled the customer and nothing good comes from that. She is an arsehole! The bank needs to fire her arse!
I respect Kannada more than Hindi . However forcing this way by Kannada loving person is unacceptable.
If Kannada is a requirement, why not open an account in Karnataka bank?
Be local support local.
Just learn English and your local language.Communicate in English. Problem solved.
irrespective of language politics, SBI staff are always head strong, egocentric and they play with innocent customers for personal hicks.
Comments should be in Tamil, or any other South Indian languages or in English. No other languages allowed.
Question from a non south indian- if I visit karnataka and i don't know kannada, am I going to be discriminated against?
Why not ask the people who can't speak your language to talk in English instead of the regional langauge. Nobody can learn the language if he is to work somewhere or travel for vacations etc. It's sheer nonsense. Slowly and gradually serious people will take their business away from the regions where this kindda stupid shit happens.
Help me understand this—why is it that no one questions the bank or the organization when it comes to relocation and language expectations?
I’m preparing for bank exams, and if I get posted to a completely different region—say, the South—why should I be expected to invest extra time and effort to learn a new language on my own? That’s time I could spend with my loved ones or adjusting to the demands of a new job. My role is to perform the duties I’ve been hired for—not to shoulder the full burden of integration without any support.
I didn’t choose the state. Most people don’t willingly leave their home and comfort zone, especially for a job where there’s no guarantee of how long they’ll stay in one location. And let’s be honest—the bank work schedule is already intense.
If national postings are a core part of the job, then national-level support should be too. At the very least, new joiners should be given a few months of structured help to learn the local language and adapt to the culture. It’s not just about fairness—it’s about enabling people to do their jobs well from day one.
Comments should be in Tamil, or any other South Indian languages or in English. No other languages allowed.
Hell naaah you guys have a while subreddit to hate on hindi
She spoke in Kannada in another video - Apology video 😂
Serves that attitude really well.
I have a genuine query regarding this, please do reply to me if you can have a civil discussion.
I live in a different state from my origin and have learnt the local language here. But when it comes to things like corporates and banks, not every person has to interact daily with someone from a background where the local language is the only option for them. India is an indigenous country that's home to hundreds of dialects and in my opinion, it is not reasonable to expect everyone to have fluency in every regional dialect before moving to any region. Plus given that employees in banks do get transfers after a set unit of time, it is an additional burden upon them to learn regional dialects with great fluency (just enough to pass by is not viable when dealing with things like finances of another).
Why does the government not implement a policy where locals from different regional dialects / tribes are upskilled towards learning common / official languages of the country? Like say in this case, they could simply hire 1 or 2 people that are fluent in Kannada and English. This would allow the bank to easily service all the people who have not received education but still wish to avail banking facilities and at the same time, also provide sustainable employment to the locals.
Just my 2 cents, only looking for civil discussions, not unnecessary name-calling bs.
The sheer arrogance is what pisses people off. If she had de escalated the situation and said she is learning or added one or two Kannada words in there, he would have been appeased. But the arrogance of saying hindi is what sets people off. Hope she was fired for the disrespect shown to the state.
Omg! How long does it take to open google translate and communicate? Imposition of either of the language is not right.
If you can’t speak Kannada, be polite and communicate it or request for help from other employees. If you can’t speak Hindi, be polite and request for the conversation to be in English or Hindi or ask for a Kannada speaking employee.
You in a bank get banking work sorted, that's my opinion. This is not people problem but government problem if a set language needs to forced make them mandatory in schools. That's how i learnt Marathi when my parents moved to Pune from Kerala. Make it an election agenda. Everyone has enough stress in their everyday life, please move on and get to daily chores.
Fire her
No one ask her preference before posting her at that state and she probably gets posted every few years to a different state. Now its good for that that she will be posted only in hindi speaking states as per her preference. Who learns a new language every 2-3 years ?
I am sure you do not ask Americans or Britishers to learn local language if they come to your state.
North is highly educated (not) so they need to feel good about speaking Hindi and not their own dialect or English.
This sub is filled with dumbfucks who are just imposing their jalebi language, she's speaking in english but still this mgs black ass has burnt down to guts, bitchass
It’s been not even 2 weeks since the operation sindoor. North Indians were the ones taking all the precautions and mental stresss of living near the border states. South states were living stress free thanks to north India taking the brunt of air strikes. Can people shut up with this division propaganda. Guys there are conflicts everywhere, in banks, every other office. Communication barriers could have easily been avoided if a Kannada and English speaking person would have translated. Only patience was needed for both sides. Always remember Divide and rule was invented by British and seems like that’s being continued by the political parties now. People need to understand that’s not the issue. Roads, hospitals, clear air and water. These are the issues not language. Language is a tool to communicate your thoughts. Language cannot be the whole message.
There are bigger problems in the world, and i don’t understand why people are just trying to fight for language! English is fine, let’s just move on from this topic. Fighting for language impositions is like just going back to pre-historic times.
Notice how she can totally understand everything he is saying, so she knows kannada and refuses to talk to local people in their local language despite knowing the language. And it's because of arrogant idiots like this that the people who genuinely don't know the language and have recently migrated end up paying the price.
Idiots
She will speak Either english or hindi, that's it. Because, english is the official language of India she is speaking English so u " kannada " . U also Speak in English.
I believe in speaking local language but this fuckery to must speak local language has to stop. People should have right to choose to learn the language.
Exactly...I mean just because someone doesn't know a language doesn't mean he/she is disrespecting that language!
HindiRejectsTamil Uno reverse 😂 Bruh y'all have a channel.. gotta be kidding me
So, no Hindi people come to TN? Wow, what a relief.
Lol as if we are dying to come your state. Just request the MNCs to mandate WFH. We'll happily go back to our own state. Y'all are anyways poor at professions which require skills. Just wanna see if coconut selling would be enough for you folks. 💀
First religion now language issues where are we heading to, I thought by 2025 such petty issues should be gone but seems like it’s getting worse …. I remember in early 2000s, pple used to try to help each other and were interested to know each other culture and put effort to know each other …. And now they look others as enemy … too much ego is infused into us over these years ….
Lol..what rubbish??? SBI is a whole india bank, employees get transferred everywhere across India being public servants....you cant fcking expect employees to learn all 30 odd languages if they're transferred to such states in their careers? These kannadigas have started stopping too low to enforce their language upon people...it's freaking india, if you don't like hindi or don't know how to speak the same nobody forces you in North India to speak in Hindi...rather people conveniently converse in English...heck even cart vendors communicate in broken words ...this bullsht behaviour of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka needs to be stopped. Learning any language is a choice...and English is the communication language officially anyway. Hence the lady is right...no one can force her to speak in a language she isn't comfortable with / doesn't know as long as it's not mandated.
Dude, If I start working in Banglore, do you expect me to speak Kannada from day 1? I have never seen such stupidity in north India. When was the last time you heard anyone been thrashed in north India for not speaking Hindi. South has this such deep hatred for all Hindi speakers.
Firstly, this still isn't imposition and moreover, this is an account of individual alone also, the lady is absolutely right here because this wasn't about Hindi or kannada it was all about creating a scene intentionally which unfortunately did happen.
LOOOOL going to a bank and creating a ruckus with the one or two employees that don't speak your language instead of speaking to other Kannadiga staff at the bank and getting told he's not got the funds to do wtf he wants to do🤣🤣
You guys find the perfect time to pull this language card every time
Aren't you guys from tamil nadu tho?
So?
They have issues bruh. Common plague. Half the year they shove kaveri issues down each others throat. Rest of the time they fight over RCB and CSK and rest of the time they lick each other over anti hindi sentiment.
The hate for hindi is common among them
It’s a central govt job not a state govt job. it’s a transferrable job and they get transferred on regular intervals. This year karnataka, couple of years later they could be in a different state. So it’s not practical to know all languages. If he/she can’t speak in english then it’s a problem. Don’t expect state specific language for central govt transferable job else go ahead sue the SBI.
One can have these nonsense demands on state bank of karnataka or similar state level intitutions.
No doubts you’re asxhoxx. You know what’s meaning professionalism?
She can handle this situations professionally but she’s arrogant and not fit for customer oriented roles
So you are one of those jobless insecure mkc that i spoke about.
Coming to professionalism, there is no proof that kannadiga fellow didnot provoke to begin with. So no way i am buying a half baked snippet of an incident tailor made to suit some propaganda based narrative.
If she doesn't want to follow the RBI rule of native languages, she should change her job rather than harassing native people.
Where is the full video which shows the women is harassing and the customer is innocent?? As far i remember kannada warriors are as provocative as it gets and it’s getting out of hand.
You should go complain to RBI immediately instead of making it a north south hindi kannada issue on reddit. Why don’t you go ahead and do that first…
Transfers are in years not months,stop twisting
First off all. People like you who take these half baked videos to suit your narrative are twisting the facts… i dont even buy this snippet to begin with, we dont even know what happened before the video. As much as i can guess, kannadigas in today’s context of kannda warriors are behaving like provocative goons everywhere. So no, not taking this clip at face value at all.
Understandable. But learn to de-escalate situations not pick a fight like this and say speak hindi.
She is literally speaking in English. Cant both of these fucks calm down with their language pride and communicate in English.
Not all the people know English. When you visit the bank you’d expect they serve in your language not in a foreign language. We are not second class citizens. Yes, you don’t need to learn local languages if you visit the states or you work in a backend job or IT or any other jobs. But you face local customers daily and you won’t speak their language- then it’s a problem with you not the local people.
Rbi directs that employees knows the local language
Not every bank customer can communicate in English..Its not a corporate environment where everyone you interact with is literate... Why did this arrogant lady take up job in Karnataka if she refuses to speak in Kannada?
Sbi is a central government bank. Employees are posted all over india. Is it not unreasonable to
We are not second class citizen to serve in a different language in our own land by foreigners.
If she's not comfortable with local languages, why should she selected KA or any other southern states?
Not everyone knows English.
Wrong information
This is what the government has to say, it's not a joke. The employees need to know the local language.
https://m.timesofindia.com/city/mumbai/why-cant-bank-employees-learn-local-language-asks-fm/articleshow/94258051.cms
https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/banks-must-appoint-staff-who-speak-local-language-says-nirmala-sitharaman-3352956
https://www.timesnownews.com/business-economy/industry/ensure-frontline-staff-are-well-versed-in-local-languages-fm-sitharaman-nudges-banks-article-94262204
https://www.thehindu.com/business/fm-urges-banks-to-be-more-digital-savvy/article65899977.ece
Applicable only for bank clerk (Nationalised bank) and rural bank (Gramin Bank).
Seems the manager is total scum. If she can't speak Kannada why did she take this post at first place? She's in a customer facing job not back end job. It's her duty to learn the local language.
Now imagine the opposite scenario, if a manager of South origin works at a Hindi speaking state and he does not speak in Hindi to the customers, will that be accepted?
Hindi Theriyathu Poda!
Keep this up and you will start realizing how long the south can a part of india when our language, customs and culture are not respected.
You are indian - respect all languages. Hindi is not special. Kannada is more important than hindi in Karnataka.
she will talk what she know isnt it obvious guys, maybe she is able to understand but cant speak, but i criticize her way of talking
What’s the professional way to handle this situation? Isn’t get someone able to speak kannada to serve the customer?
That’s not the big deal isn’t? This SBI manager real hindi Chauvinist and must be dealt with
Unemployed fighting with employed.
So you mean kannada speakers are unemployed??
The manager is scum, she’s service provider the bank customer boss.
She should serve customers preferable local language
Its the bank’s responsibility to get employees skilled in local language, its not ner fault. More skills that a person have, more money the employer will have to pay him/her.
What’s professionalism? Professionalism still employer’s responsibility? What’s the individual commitment? That means she working for just money?
Already RBI mandated bank customer service employees must be local languages for her incompetency she can be fired?
Fired? The bank should employ people with the right skills? And tell me, do you not work to earn money, i do and every single person i know also work to earn money, i guess you just eat your language, wear your language, buy things by trading your language.
Then Kannadigas should apply and crack the exams to become one lol
Tell me honestly, up north do they actually crack exams or bribe officials and get in?
Cause if they really do "crack" exams like you said, she would've had the basic decency to talk politely to a customer. Not throw arrogance like that.
Yeah man sure, let's post the video of the whole incidence. Let's get the context.
Another indian scum spotted, any south Indians working in North India complaining about Hindi speakers? We immediately adapt to the local languages and customs.
Are you braindead ? If you are in a service sector obviously you should know the language of the customers
That is basic common sense. Do these bank officials live in some ivory tower?
Why would an unemployed go to a bank
I don’t know, maybe to get a loan? Withdraw money from his parents account? Or his account? What does employment have to do with this.